# **SET INTERFACE/COLLECTION**

<br>

### **Set interface/collection**

+ "Set interface" is a sub-interface (child) of "Collection interface".

+ Implementation classes of set interface are known as set collection.

+ Features of Set interface:
  + Doesn't allow duplicacy of elements.
  + It is an un-ordered collection.
  + Allows single null.

<br>

### **Set interface/collection implementation classes**

+ List interface/collection has following three implementation classes:
  + HashSet class
  + LinkedHashSet class

<br>

### **HashSet class**

+ It is an implementation of Set interface.

+ It creates an instance of HashMap class and uses this object to keep elements.

+ HashMap internally creates HashTable of size "60". 

<br>

```
  HASHSET CLASS OBJECT CREATION

    HashSet<String> obj = new HashSet<String>();  // Using String class datatype
    HashSet<Integer> obj = new HashSet<Integer>();  // Using Wrapper class datatype
    HashSet<E> obj = new HashSet<E>();  // Using Generic datatype
```

<br>

### **Hashcode**

+ The methods of object class are:
  + public int hashCode()
  + public boolean equals(Object obj)

+ "HashCode" method of Object class generates a unique hashcode number of the object whose reference is given to it and returns that hashcode number.

+ It generates hash number by using reference of the object.

+ But, hashCode method is over-ridden by String class and wrapper classes.

+ It generates hash number by using value of the object of wrapper classes.

<br>

### **Hashcode, equals, references, and values**

+ Hashcode will be generated by reference, upon invoking of custom-class object's hashcode method.

  + Hence, hashcodes will be different for different references of objects of this custom-class

+ Hashcode will be generated by value, upon invoking of String/Integer/etc class.
  
  + Hence, hashcode number will be same for the objects with same values.
  
  + And, hashcode number will be different for the objects with different values.

+ **Equal method** of an object class compares references of the two objects and returns true/false.

  + But this method is over-ridden by String/Wrapper classes and it compares values of objects of these classes. 

  + If String/Integer/etc class has two different objects and value is same, then equal method will return true.

<br>

### **LinkedHashSet class**

+ It is an implementation of Set interface and child of HashSet class.

+ It maintains insertion order of elements.

<br>

### **TreeSet class**

+ It is an implementation of "SortedSet" interface.

+ SortedSet interface is a child of Set interface.

+ It doesn't allows "null".

+ It keeps/sorts elements in ascending or descending order.

+ TreeSet class invokes "compareTo" method of the Comparable interface to compare elements for sorting.

+ So, class of the element must have implementation of "compareTo" method.
